many world leaders have welcomed a un
Security Council resolution which
demands an immediate ceasefire in Gaza
during the remainder of Ramadan it also
calls for the unconditional release of
captives and unrestricted access to
desperately needed Aid now in response
to the resolution Israeli officials
canceled a trip to Washington in
protests against the US failing to use
its veto prime minister Benjamin
netanyahu's office issued a statement
saying that us actions were a clear
departure from its consistent position
since the beginning of the war the
statement says the resolution gives
Hamas hope that International pressure
will force Israel to accept a ceasefire
without the release of the Israeli
captives held in
Gaza Israel may have cancelled that
delegation visit to the US but its
defense minister yuav Galant is was
already in Washington and he's holding
separate talks with National Security
adviser Jake Sullivan and the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
alzer's White House correspondent
Kimberly hit has more from Washington
DC the White House is calling the
decision by the Israelis to cancel a
meeting with us officials later in the
week disappointing the meeting was
designed to discuss Israeli campaign
plans into Rafa and whether or not there
could be Alternatives the state
department saying that there was a fear
that there could be undue civilian harm
also the belief that the Biden
Administration feels that this could
reduce Israel's standing in the world
and as a result undermined its security
well ahead of another meeting taking
place on Monday the Israeli defense
minister spoke to reporters ahead of his
meeting with the secretary of state and
the National Security advisor saying
that he felt that the actions of the
United States at the UN Security Council
were certainly not supportive of Israel
and as a result he issued this thinly
Veiled Threat take a listen and
we have no moral right to stop the war
in Gaza until we return all the hostages
home if we do not reach a clear decision
in Gaza it may bring us closer to war in
the
North I will stress the importance of
destroying Hamas and returning the
hostages home we will operate against
Hamas everywhere including in places
where we have not yet been now White
House security Council spokesperson John
Kirby has countered the argument by
Israel also that there has been a shift
in policy as a result of the United
States abstaining on this latest un
Security Council resolution as opposed
to vetoing as has been seen in the past
in fact Kirby's saying that this is not
a reflection of a shift in policy
instead the United States saying that it
wanted to get to a place where it would
see a clear condemnation of Hamas and
its actions on October 7th and given
that they could not get that language
this was a resolution the United States
says it could not support Kimberly H at
Al jazer
Washington Imran Khan in occupied East
Jerusalem joins us now Imran let let's
wrap up this uh this Israeli response to
the United Nation Security Council
resolution they've said it's not going
to impact how we conduct this war
they're seem to be basically ignoring it
and pretending that it hasn't
happened well that's actually completely
consistent for Israeli policy remember
there's been about 148 un resolutions
since 2015 Israel's ignored every single
one of them it's very good at ignoring
uh all of those resolutions in fact it
has a spin on this calling the UN
anti-semitic at worst and anti-israel at
best so it can ignore all of this this
is much more difficult for Israel to
ignore because of the US's role in all
of this we've unpacked a lot of that
already but let me just remind you the
fact that the US abstained rather than
veto is what's driving the anger from
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu and
his allies here in Israel he is saying
very clearly uh that this Administration
is trying to stop uh Netanyahu from
carrying out the war the way he wants to
be able to carry it out now that's
something uh that is driven a wedge
between them the UN resolution it is
binding it is international law but
Israel can ignore it because it still
has the key support of the US $3.5
billion a year in military assistance
alone that money hasn't been threatened
so there is a rift in the relationship
there is a public facing Rift in that us
relationship but backstage where it
counts the money that's still
coming Imran I wonder are you able to
get a sense of how this is all playing
out with the Israeli public because this
is another show of Israel's isolation on
the international
stage well let's take the media for an
an example normally the Israeli media is
very divided hard right and a very small
liberal left uh kind of media uh very
divided on all of the issues they're
actually United um in talking about the
fact uh that the there may well be a
rift in the US Israeli relationship and
that's indeed worrying the public
because it's not not just Joe Biden the
former US president Donald Trump has
criticized Israel as well saying Israel
needs to stop its war in Gaza there was
a calculus that prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu may have had in the back of
his head he knows there's an election
coming up in the US if he sticks to his
guns with Biden maybe the next
Administration May well change uh its
position on Israel's actions in Gaza
that doesn't look like it's happening
Prime uh president Donald Trump has been
very clear that might just be election
in but all of this has an impact does it
change uh the public support for the war
no it doesn't that's still pretty high
but this idea this notion that they can
go into raffle with this ground
offensive without any kind of
international opposition that's now
going away the US has been very clear
and that vote of abstention from the US
is the clearest signal yet that it's not
a green light to go into graa grafa with
a massive ground Invasion Imran Khan
reporting from occupied Jerusalem thank
you very much Amron